Dictation 44204






1.- You have approached this Superintendency claiming against the Mutual that by Resolution of May 11, 2009, described as common the pathology with diagnosis of "Closed rupture of the extensor long right thumb", which attributes to a work accident , Since it occurred spontaneously in circumstances in which he performed his work as an operator in packing.

He states that on May 6, 2009, performing functions of paling up pallets containing boxes of grapes, suffered a severe pain in the right thumb and to his surprise could not perform movements with that finger, immediately went to the first Polyclinic Attention that exists in the company, where they performed scrubs and bandaged him in the hope of a recovery the next day, a fact that did not occur and continued with severe pain so he was referred to Mutual, where the doctor on duty in that establishment Only immobilized the finger and quoted him the next day for the traumatologist, who examined it and dated May 11 sent him to Viña del Mar where they determined to his surprise that it was not a work accident.

Attached Certificates of Health Center and Resolution ..

2.- On the other hand, the Honorable Deputy, by means of a documentary letter, indicates to this Superintendency that you went to your parliamentary office to state your disagreement with that resolved by the Mutual, Institution that determined that its pathology was not covered by the Obligatory Insurance against Risks of Work Accidents and Professional Diseases established by Law No. 16,744.

He adds that you suffered a long extensor tendon injury to your right thumb while working for the Society received the corresponding medical care but was later referred to Public Health even if your accident is recognized by the treating doctors as a work accident And not of common origin, for its pathology of Diabetes Mellitus, this consists in medical certificates that accompanied, for which reason it requests this Superintendency to review its antecedents and be reintegrated to the medical attention that the Mutual must provide.

3.- Required to that effect Mutual informed that on May 6, 2009, you consulted in your care services in the Andes, referring to acute pain and functional limitation of the right thumb, while lifting pallets in your workplace, without any mechanism Traumatic, spontaneous appearance.

He points out that he was referred to a specialist in the city of Viña del Mar, finding that the examination is impossible for the active extension of the distal interphalangeal of the thumb, the long extensor tendon of the thumb is palpated which is tense with the active extension maneuver.

Therefore, it is concluded that this is a closed rupture of the long extensor tendon at the level of retinaculum of the wrist, which corresponds to a pathology of common origin in people with diabetes, reason for which it is derived to its common regimen To which you are affiliated in order to continue your treatment.

3.- In this regard, this body must express that Article 5 of Law No. 16,744 provides that a work injury is understood to mean any injury suffered by a person on account of or on the occasion of his work and which results in incapacity or death . Pursuant to this provision and as has been repeatedly pointed out by this Superintendency, in order to qualify an accident as from work it is necessary that the injury should have occurred in direct relation (expression "to cause"), or in an indirect relationship, but Indubitable, with the work of the victim (expression "on occasion").

In this way and according to the legal precept quoted, for the qualification in comment, necessarily must have a causal relationship between the work done and the injuries suffered.

However, having submitted the background to the analysis of the Medical Department of this Service, reported that reviewed his case according to the available background it is not possible to establish a causal relationship between the incident occurred on May 6, 2009 and the injury presented with the diagnosis "Long right thumb Extensor closed break".

In fact, said Department notes that the symptoms began during their normal work activity, without mediating an injury mechanism consistent with the production of the condition in the comment.

4.- In the merit of the above, it is approved what the Mutual informed in the sense that the injury you presented on May 6, 2009, corresponds to a common pathology and does not constitute an accident at work, therefore, it is not appropriate The coverage of Law No. 16,744 and the medical benefits that were generated must be covered by the common health care system to which you are affiliated