Dictation 5183






You have sent us. To this Superintendency for its study and opinion, the presentation made to that Secretariat of State by the Union of Workers of the Establishment of the Steel Company of the Pacific S.A. No. 1, which states that they have learned that they would be analyzing early retirement, which would be based on the heavy work performed.

In this regard, they point out that in an interview with the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of US. They would have been asked to accompany a technical contribution proposing solutions and pointing out the causes that, in their opinion, would justify their inclusion in the project on early retirement that they suggest, bearing in mind that, according to the rules of current legislation, Are charged to the worker because it is based on individual capitalization. For the same reason they propose for the financing of the initiative, to introduce a business contribution.

In this regard, this Superintendency may manifest to us. That the imposing ones of the former Social Security Service enjoy a specific previsual protection regulations in respect of heavy work.

In fact, article 38 of Law No. 10,383, Organic Law of the referred service, contemplates a reduction in the age required for retirement, of one year for every five years in which the insured had performed heavy work, defined as such in D.S. No. 681, of 1963, of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, provided that upon granting the pension they have a minimum of 1,200 weeks of taxes.

Said reduction can not exceed five years. However, insured persons who have carried out the heavy work in mining and foundry activities will enjoy a reduction of two years for every five heavy works, with a maximum of ten years.

It should be noted that the impostors of the former Pension Fund for Private Employees, under the provisions of Law No. 17,487, are also entitled to the allowance established in article 38 of Law No. 10,383, for the heavy work that they prove to have Made during the time they were provisionally assigned to the former Social Security Service.

For this reason, the Superintendency estimates that the old system of pensions is governed by the reduction in the age required for retirement, due to the heavy work that has been done and the petition of the appellants should be taken into account in studies that Are being made to modify the New Pension System