Dictation 3623






1.- This COMPIN has requested the qualification of the accident suffered by the worker, which would have occurred on July 28, 2004, at 18:30 hours, by fall with 4 trays of approximately 2 kg each, in the processing plant Of salmon from the company, receiving the impact on the left thumb.

From the accident reported the next day, because he was doing overtime and there was no boss to account. The next day, she was seen in the infirmary of the company, being immobilized the thumb for 6 days, with bad answer, reason why she consulted doctor by the modality free election, that granted medical license N ° 14232450, type 5 = Accident of the Work or the journey, for 14 days and in the control is issued a second license No. 12665000, for 7 days, being derived to the Mutuality, where they change the license type 5 for another type 1 = Illness or Common Accident.

2.- Required for this purpose, said Association has informed that the investigation of what happened by the expert in risk prevention, whose copy of Technical Report No. 48/2004 accompanies, it was established that the affected person normally carried out his activities during the 28 Of July 2004 and did not leave any record of what happened in his employer.

The worker told the expert that two people had witnessed her accident, which was denied by the aforementioned, as indicated in the investigation of the misfortune of 24 August 2004, made by her employer by the expert, a copy of which is attached.

The paramedic of the company said that on July 29, 2004, the worker was prone to require attention for two bruises: one in his left hand and another in the leg on the same side, attributing the latter to a fall suffered on the stairs Of access to his house, occurred at approximately 3:00 on the 29th, in circumstances that he returned to his house under the influence of alcohol, adding that the polyclinic presented with alcoholic breath.

3.- In this regard, it should be pointed out that article 5, first paragraph, of Law No. 16,744 provides: For the purposes of this law, an occupational accident is defined as any injury suffered by a person on account of or on the occasion of the work , And that causes incapacity or death. That is to say, there must be a direct or at least indirect, but in any case undoubted causal relation between the injuries suffered and the work developed by the victim.
The Medical Department of this Superintendency, after studying the antecedents of the case has reported that both the fall in the ladder of the house and with the trays in the industry, both mechanisms are compatible with the injury presented in the interphalangeal joint of his thumb Left, with the diagnosis "Contusion and Sprain IF left thumb". There are no clinical elements that allow to differentiate if the injury was provoked by one fall or another.

From the antecedents in view, it appears only that the misfortune occurred on the scale of the entrance of the worker's room, so it was not because of or on the occasion of the work, consequently and in accordance with the provisions of the Law No. 16,744, especially its Articles 5 and 77 bis, on rejection of rest, this Superintendence dictates that the illness that affects the worker, is of common origin and that, therefore, that COMPIN has and should grant to The beneficiary the medical and pecuniary benefits to which he is entitled.