Dictation 3724






This Commission has approached this Superintendency requesting a ruling regarding its competence in the qualification of pathologies and determination of permanent incapacities derived from occupational accidents and diseases, which it requests to be distributed to all the organisms that intervene in this type of Matters, in order to facilitate the application of the instructions of this Service.

It points out that the above, inasmuch as, on the one hand, Article 77 of Law No. 16,744, gives it competence to hear complaints relating to "matters of fact relating to medical matters", and, on the other Part, article 77 bis of the same legal body, stipulates that it is for this Superintendency to resolve, "with exclusive competence and without further appeal on the nature of the condition that gave rise to it" (medical license or rest).

He adds that, by Official Letter No. 45.098 dated November 12, 2004, this Service instructed him that his competence was restricted by the first paragraph of Article 77, to evaluations, re-evaluations or reviews of presumably permanent disabilities, for Which could not pronounce on the qualification of the origin (common or labor) of the pathologies. However, by Ordinance No. 25,776, dated June 6, 2005, it was also recognized competence for such qualification.

In this regard, it should be noted that according to what is prescribed in the first paragraph of article 77 of Law No. 16,744, that Medical Commission has competence to rule on decisions of the COMPIN or Employers' Mutuals relapsed on matters of Which relate to matters of a medical nature. Likewise, it has powers to issue its opinion in those situations referred to in Articles 33 and 42 of the legal body in question.

In the same vein, it is necessary to clarify that Article 79 of D.S. No. 101 of 1968, of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, in its new wording, prescribes in its pertinent part that: "The Medical Claims Commission shall have jurisdiction to hear and rule, in the first instance, on all decisions relapsed in matters In fact they relate to matters of a medical nature, in cases of permanent incapacities resulting from occupational accidents and occupational diseases. "

The article in question, adds that: "It will correspond to know also the claims referred to in Article 42 of the law. In the second instance, it will hear appeals filed against the resolutions referred to in the second clause Of article 33 of the same law. "

On the other hand, it should be kept in mind that, in compliance with the requirements of article 72 of the aforementioned D.S. N ° 101, it will correspond to the Administrators of Social Security against occupational accidents and diseases, to practice and to carry out all the examinations that are necessary to study the possible existence of an occupational disease, after which they will send the antecedents of the case to the Corresponding Medical Commission (COMPIN), to proceed in accordance with the provisions of article 58 of Law No. 16,744.

Now, and in view of the refusal of the Administrator to carry out said examinations, as established in Article 72, letter b) of the aforementioned D.S. No. 101, the worker or the employer, may appeal to this Supervisory Body, which will resolve exclusively and without further recourse.

From the above, it is considered that if a Medical Commission - COMIN or CEIAT - considers as a professional origin the condition presented by a worker and sets the percentage of his incapacity to gain in 0%, if he does not agree with it , It will be that Entity -COMERE- before the corresponding claim the call to pronounce, issuing the pertinent resolution, which in any case will be appealed before this Superintendency.

However, it is not for this entity to issue its opinion in situations that relate to the qualification of a pathology, in which there is no assessment of permanent disability, either within or outside the procedure established in article 77 bis.

Likewise, as has already been pointed out, it is not appropriate to issue an opinion in situations where the administering body refuses to practice or carry out any examination of the worker who has requested it, since the relevant claim must be known and resolved by This Superintendency, as prescribed in article 72, letter b) of said DS N ° 101.

Similarly, it will not be appropriate to issue its opinion in those situations that relate to the indication of premature discharge in those cases that do not involve permanent disability, nor in that case