Dictation 4786






A female worker has recourse to this Superintendency in order to be informed if she has the right to the permits and enjoyment of subsidies that are dealt with articles 2 and 3 of Law No. 18,867.

She states that she is single and that by resolution of the juvenile court of Punta Arenas she was entrusted with the care, protection and tuition, a minor of female sex, born on April 20, 1991.

In this regard, it should be noted that Article 2 of Law No. 18.867 provides that: "Every working woman who has under her personal care a minor under six months and who has initiated the trial of full adoption in this in terms Of Title III of Law No. 18,703, will be entitled to a permit that will be maintained during the processing of that one for up to two weeks, which will give rise to the subsidy contemplated in article 62 of Law No. 18,768.

To the corresponding request for permission, must necessarily accompany an affidavit of the worker to have under their personal care the child who is invoked as the cause of the benefit, and a certificate from the court hearing the full adoption trial in which it is believed Their status of processing ".

Article 3 of Law No. 18.867 establishes that: "The workers indicated in the previous article shall also have the right to the permit and the subsidy referred to in article 185 of the Labor Code, which shall be governed by the Decree with Force of Law No. 44, 1978, of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and by article 18 of Law No. 18,469, provided that they meet the respective requirements, when the health of the child under one year under his personal care And whose judgment of full adoption has begun, require his attention at home due to serious illness.

Well, from the legal precepts cited it is inferred that in order for the working woman to be entitled to the benefits contemplated, it is necessary that she complies with two basic assumptions, namely, to have in her personal care a minor under six months Or one year, as the case may be, and to have begun the trial of full adoption of this in the terms title oí of Law No. 18,703.

In this regard, this Superintendency states that, in the case of the species, the worker does not have the right to apply for the permits and subsidies that are dealt with in articles 2 and 3 of Law No. 18.867, since it does not appear that she has complied with the Second of the above mentioned requirements, since it is not accredited under the terms of article 2 of the said law, that has initiated the trial of full adoption of the child whose care was judicially granted.

Moreover, it is not clear that he is in a position to initiate such adoption in accordance with the rules contained in Title III of Law No. 18,703, in view of his marital status